the Hunza Valley is one of these places that should be on any itinerary for Pakistan. Located in the Northern Areas, this is one of the most beautiful destinations in the country. On top of that, there’s an abundance of amazing things to do in Hunza

I visited Hunza twice and spent a total of seven weeks exploring this beautiful valley. It’s one of my favourite places in the world and one I can’t wait to go back to. Apart from its magnificent mountainscapes, it’s also the people that make Hunza such a special place – they’re incredibly hospitable and welcoming and will make you feel right at home.

While nearby places like Skardu and Chitral (except for the Kalash Valleys) are more conservative, Hunza is home to Ismaili Muslims, who are known to be more liberal. You will also find plenty of female-owned businesses here, and women are encouraged to study.

But if you’re here, you’re probably looking for the best places to visit in Hunza, so let’s dive into it! This valley is full of spectacular places waiting to be explored.

Best Things to Do in the Hunza Valley
1. Cross the Hussaini Bridge
The Hussaini Bridge is one of the longest and most famous bridges in Gilgit Baltistan. It was built so that locals could cross the Hunza River, and it’s quite impressive! Not only are the mountainscapes surrounding it magnificent, but the bridge itself is also interesting. It consists of widely spaced wooden planks and steel cables.

Although the Hussaini Bridge is often called one of the most dangerous bridges in the world, it’s relatively safe. A tourist died after falling from this bridge in 2022, and ever since, the authorities have been doing their best to maintain it well, and a guard will give you a lifejacket before letting you cross.

2. See the Passu Cones
Passu is one of my favourite places in Hunza. It’s home to the Passu Cones, which are also known as “Tupopdan”. These peaks are 6,106 m (20,033 ft) high and make for one of the most spectacular views on the Karakorum Highway.

When you enter the village of Passu, you will see these towering peaks right in front of you. There’s a straight stretch of highway here that offers amazing photo ops.
Yak Grill is one of the most famous restaurants in the region. It’s renowned for its delicious yak steak, and it’s close to the Passu Cones.

3. Admire Attabad Lake
Attabad Lake has a tragic history – it was formed after a major landslide occurred in this region in 2010. This natural disaster killed 20 people and destroyed several villages. During the five months that followed, the water of the Hunza River was blocked, which resulted in the formation of Attabad Lake.

Today, this lake is renowned for being one of Pakistan’s most beautiful. Its turquoise-blue waters surrounded by towering mountain peaks are truly stunning.

Attabad Lake is also one of the region’s most accessible lakes. It’s located right next to the Karakoram Highway, and you will catch your first glimpse of it from the road.

4. Hike to Baskochi Maedows
If you’re up for a short hike around Attabad Lake (which I highly recommend doing), the hike to Baskochi Meadows is an excellent choice.

Depending on your personal pace, it takes 45 minutes to 2 hours to reach this viewpoint, and once you get to the top, you will be rewarded with a breathtaking view of the lake. As the area is pretty big, there are numerous amazing viewpoints here and from above, the water looks even bluer!

While you might need some help from a local to find the start of the trail, once you find it, the hike is pretty straightforward, as there’s only one path. It starts somewhere around this area.

5. Climb up the stairs of Ondra Poygah in Gulmit
The village of Gulmit is home to the longest stairwell in Pakistan, Ondra Poygah. Its 1655 stairs lead to the ruins of an ancient fort called “Ondra”. During the winter of 2021 and 2022, local volunteers built these stairs in just 60 days to promote the archaeological heritage of Upper Hunza and attract tourists.

The trek to Ondra Poygah is 1,3 km (0,8 mi) long and the views along the way are stunning. As you hike up, you will have an increasingly beautiful view of Gulmit Village, and once you reach the fort, you will have a view of the Passu Cones (#2 on this list) and Shisper Peak as well.

6. Visit Altit Fort
Located in the village with the same name, Altit Fort is one of the best places to visit in Hunza. This fort was built by the Mirs (rulers) of Hunza and dates back to the 11th century. It withstood numerous attacks and earthquakes over the years, and today, this is one of the most important architectural structures in the region.

Altit Fort is considered the birthplace of Hunza, and it’s the oldest surviving monument in the region. This is the perfect place to head if you want to learn more about Hunza’s rich history.

One of the things I loved about visiting this fort is that inside, you can still find plenty of ancient utensils that were used by the royal family. It will give you a glimpse of what life was like in this region in ancient times.

7. Explore Ganish Village
If you’re a history buff, Ganish is another place you will love. This small village is one of the oldest settlements in the Hunza Valley. Located on the Ancient Silk Road between China and Afghanistan, this place features ancient watchtowers, traditional mosques and some of the most impressive architecture in the region.

When you’re visiting Ganish’s mosques, you will notice that they’re full of intricate carvings. It’s interesting to see how these include Islamic art as well as Hindu swastikas and Buddhist lotus flower motifs. According to the story, the travelling artisans who decorated these mosques picked up these symbols during their travels along the Silk Road.

8. Drive to Khunjerab Pass
Located at an elevation of 4,693 m (15,397 ft), the Khunjerab Pass is the highest point on the Karakoram Highway. This is where you will find the border between Pakistan and China, which is the highest paved international border in the world.
The Khunjerab Pass is part of the Khunjerab National Park, which is home to lots of wildlife, from yaks and Himalayan ibex to snow leopards and Himalayan brown bears. On top of that, the area is also famous for its spectacular mountain scenery and beautiful alpine meadows.

9. Visit Baltit Fort
Perched high above the village of Karimabad, Baltit Fort became the residence of the rulers of Hunza after they abandoned Altit Fort (#6 on this list) in the 14th century, and this is where they lived until 1945. Together with Alit Fort, this is one of the oldest surviving monuments in this region.

As the ruler of Hunza had a strong relationship with the Ladakh region of India, the architecture of the Baltit Fort was influenced by Ladakhi and Tibetan architecture. Therefore, it’s often compared to the Potala Palace in Tibet, which is one of Asia’s most notable landmarks.

When you visit Baltit Fort, you get a guide who will tell you more about the history of Hunza and its rulers.

10. Watch the sunset at Eagle’s Nest
Eagle’s Nest is actually the name of a hotel located a 30-minute drive from the town of Karimabad. It’s located at an elevation of 2,850 m (9,350 ft) and offers an amazing view of the Hunza Valley.

While you can stay at this hotel, this is not why I recommend visiting this place. The view of the Hunza Valley and the surrounding mountains, however, is. If you walk for about 15 minutes from this hotel, you will find a beautiful viewpoint which is perfect for watching the sunset over the mountains.

11. Take a trip to Chapursan Valley
If you’re looking for an off-the-beaten-path destination, the Charpusan Valley might just be the perfect place for you. It’s located near the border with the Wakhan Corridor in Afghanistan, and it’s home to the Wakhi people, an Iranian ethnic group that lives in the mountains of Pakistan, Afghanistan, Tajikistan and China.

I spent a few days in the Chapursan Valley and based myself in Zoodkhun, the last village before the Afghan border. During my stay, I spent a lot of time with the (super hospitable) locals, visited the Baba Ghundi Shrine, hiked and explored other Wakhi villages.

All in all, the Chapursan Valley is an amazing place to head for adventurous travellers looking for an unforgettable experience in one of Pakistan’s most remote valleys.

12. Visit Borith Lake and the Passu Glacier
Borith Lake is a nice high-altitude lake located 2,600 m (8,500 ft) above sea level. You will find it in the tiny village of Borith, which is on the way to the Passu Glacier.

The Passu Glacier is one of the most accessible glaciers in Pakistan. You can already catch a glimpse of it from the Karakorum Highway, and it’s just a short walk from the parking lot. This glacier is 21 km (13 mi) long and makes for breathtaking views.

13. Trek to Rakaposhi Basecamp
The hike to Rakaposhi Base Camp is one of my favourites in the area, and it’s argued to be one of the most beautiful hikes in Pakistan. As its name predicts, it will take you to the foot of Mount Rakaposhi, which is 7788 m (25,551) high.

This hike can be done in one to three days. Even if you’re in good physical condition, I recommend doing it in two to three days, though, as this will make it more enjoyable. There are two camp sites on the trek, and you can rent out tents and camping gear here. It’s also possible to eat here if you don’t want to bring your own food.

Apart from the magnificent view of Mount Rakaposhi, some of the other highlights of this trek include the Minapin Glacier (which is the most beautiful glacier I’ve ever seen) and the view of the Diran mountain (7,266 m / 23,839 ft). This is a truly unforgettable trek that will take you along some of Pakistan’s most beautiful landscapes.

14. Head to Shimshal Valley
The Shimshal Valley is the largest in Gilgit Baltistan, and it’s also one of the country’s highest (3,100 m / 10,213 ft). This valley is pretty remote, and it’s not the most accessible one. To reach it, you will have to take one of Pakistan’s most dangerous roads, which is an adventure on its own.

If you’re an adventurous type of traveller who enjoys going on majestic treks and likes leaving civilisation behind for a while, you will love Shimshal. This area’s rugged terrain will make sure to impress you.

I didn’t make it to the Shimshal Valley myself just yet, but both locals as well as other travellers told me it’s one of the best places to visit in Hunza, so this is something I can’t wait to go back for!

15. Explore the Hopper Valley
Famous for the Hopper Glacier, the valley with the same name is renowned for its breathtaking mountain views. This is a great place to hike and enjoy the beautiful scenery.

Apart from the Hopper Glacier, you will also find the Barpu Glacier and the Mier Glacier in this valley. There are plenty of amazing hikes in the area, including the hike to Rush Lake, which is one of the most famous ones.

It’s good to know that the Hopper Valley isn’t very far from Karimabad, so if you’re short on time, it can be visited in just a day.

16. Eat delicious Hunza food
Last but not least, a visit to Hunza wouldn’t be complete without indulging in yummy Hunza cuisine, which is completely different from the food in the rest of Pakistan (it’s also not spicy).

What makes Hunza food so special is that it’s completely organic. The locals grow their fruits and vegetables in their gardens, and believe me, it’s delicious! The tastiest and juiciest apples I have EVER tasted were growing in the garden of the place I stayed at in Ganish.

Some of the most famous Hunza dishes are chapshuro – a hearty pie, hoilo garma – a dish consisting of chappatti dough, spinach and potatoes, and apricot soup, but there are many more.

Best Time to Visit Hunza
The best time to visit Hunza is in March, April, May, September and October as this is when the weather will be at its best. You can find an overview of the seasons in Hunza below:

Spring (March to April): Spring is a great time to visit the Hunza Valley. This is when there will be cherry blossoms and temperatures will start getting warmer after winter. While March will still be pretty cold, you can expect temperatures of 8°C to 20°C (46°F to 69°F) in Karimabad in April.
Summer (May to September): It can get quite hot (and rainy) in July and August (up to 30°C / 86°F in Karimabad), but the weather in May and September will be great, both months have temperatures between 10C° and 22°C (50°F and 72°F).
Autumn (October to November): During this season, the Hunza Valley will be incredibly beautiful because of the autumn colours, making it one of Asia’s best autumn destinations. It will start to get colder, but it won’t be too cold yet in October (8°C to 17°C / 46°F to 63). It will be colder in November, though.
Winter (December to February): Winter in Hunza is cold, and some roads and treks won’t be accessible because of the snow, so this is not a good time to visit the region. Temperatures will range between -10°C and 5°C (14°F and 41°F) in Karimabad.

How to Get Around Hunza
Hunza is pretty big and the distances are quite far, so these are the best ways to get around:

Private car: Most people rent a car with a driver to get around Hunza. Your hotel can arrange this, but make sure to negotiate the price in advance.
Motorbike: This is a great way to get around if you feel comfortable driving a motorbike! This is how I got around the area, and it was amazing. The pros of renting a motorbike are that you will be super flexible and can stop whenever you want to take pictures.
Hitchhiking: Hitchhiking is a popular way to get around Northern Pakistan, and the locals do this all the time (it’s considered safe). I hitchhiked on a couple of occasions in Northern Pakistan and never had trouble finding a ride.
Shared van: There are shared vans in Hunza, but they only leave once or twice a day. Apart from hitchhiking, this is the cheapest way to get around the valley, but it’s also pretty time-consuming.

Where to Stay in Hunza
There are plenty of hotels and guesthouses in Hunza, most of which are located in Karimabad (this is also a great place to shop for Pakistani souvenirs). You will find my top recommendations below:

Offto Resort (⭐ 8.8/10, $$$): If you’re looking for a beautiful resort, Offto Resort is the place for you. It’s set in the middle of a garden full of fruit trees, and the rooms are super elegant.
Old Hunza Inn (⭐ 8.6/10, $$): This is a great place for those on a mid-range budget. The view from the balcony and restaurant is spectacular, the rooms are nice and clean, and the staff is super friendly. I didn’t stay at Old Hunza Inn myself as I was on a budget, but I loved coming here for breakfast.
Tourist Cottage ($): I stayed at Tourist Cottage for three weeks and absolutely loved this place. The rooms are affordable and the view from the balcony is amazing (this guesthouse is actually located right next to Old Hunza Inn). On top of that, the owner is incredibly helpful, and they have an onsite restaurant that serves fresh food. This is also a great place to meet other travellers.
If you’d rather stay elsewhere, it’s good to know that you will also find hotels in Altit, Gulmit, Passu and other villages along the Karakoram Highway. Many of these are not on booking sites, but you will find them on Google Maps. I stayed at Perch Resort in Shishkat for a night, for example, and loved the place.

Best Things to Do in Hunza: Final Thoughts
And voila – I hope that you have found exactly what you were looking for in this post full of amazing things to do in Hunza. This is a truly magical destination, and I hope you will love it as much as I do.

With incredibly hospitable locals, breathtaking mountains and delicious organic food, Hunza has a lot to offer to mountain lovers and adventurous travellers. You could easily spend weeks or months exploring everything it has to offer, but if you’re short on time, it’s also possible to see some of this valley’s most beautiful sights in three or four days.