Also called the “City of Flowers”, Peshawar is the capital of Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and together with Lahore, this is my favourite city in the country. I visited it twice and can’t wait to go back.

Peshawar is primarily populated by Pashtuns, one of the largest ethnic groups in Pakistan and neighbouring Afghanistan. The Pashtuns are famous for their incredible hospitality, which is truly mind-blowing. You will be greeted with smiling faces and endless invitations for chai (tea) here.

Apart from its incredible hospitality, there are also some great things to do in Peshawar. From its bustling bazaars to its most famous mosque, you will find the best places to visit in Peshawar in this post. Let’s dive right into it!

Best Places to Visit in Peshawar
1. Sethi House Museum
Sethi House is located in the Sethi Mohallah neighbourhood in the old city of Peshawar. You will find seven 18th-century mansions here, but Sethi House is the only one open to visitors.

Built by the Sethi family, a wealthy family of traders from Rawalpindi in 1884, Sethi House was inspired by the vernacular architecture of Bukhara, Uzbekistan, and features beautiful wooden carvings and colourful glasswork.

This is one of the best places to visit in Peshawar if you want to learn more about the city’s history. It was transformed into a museum in 1990 and boasts a collection of paintings, sculptures and textiles from the region.

2. Mahabat Khan Mosque
The Mahabat Khan Mosque is Peshawar’s most famous mosque. It was built by Mahabat Khan, the governor of Peshawar under Mughal emperor Shah Jahan, who is famous for building the Taj Mahal, in the 17th century.

This mosque has an interesting history. Its minarets were used to hang prisoners during the time of the Sikh Empire (1799-1849). Later, when the Soviet Union invaded nearby Afghanistan in 1979, tribal chiefs would gather here to rally the Afghan people against the Soviets.

All in all, the Mahabat Khan Mosque is a beautiful example of Mughal architecture and a place that cannot be missed during a visit to Peshawar.

Make sure to dress modestly and to cover your head if you’re a woman when you visit this mosque (and the rest of Peshawar). Read my detailed guides on what to wear in Pakistan and what to pack for Pakistan next as this is a conservative Muslim country.

3. Qissa Khawani Bazaar
Strolling around Peshawar’s bazaars is hands down my favourite thing to do in this city, and the Qissa Khawani Bazaar is the perfect place to do this.

This bazaar is located on Qissa Khawai Road, and you will find everything here from household items to food and clothes. Make sure to check out the little streets surrounding this bazaar too, there are plenty of shops here as well!

There are two memorials somewhere in the middle of this street that pay tribute to the victims of the massacre that took place here on 23 April 1930. On this day, the British Indian Army opened fire on a crowd of demonstrators who were protesting against colonial rule, and nearly 400 people were killed.

4. Sir Cunningham Clock Tower
The British colonial Sir Cunningham Clock Tower, also called Ghanta Ghar, was built in 1900 and this is one of the most famous landmarks in Peshawar.

It commemorates Queen Victoria, who ruled over British India at the time, and is named after Sir Alexander Frederick Douglas Cunningham, who was the Commissioner of Peshawar.

You will find plenty of ancient buildings around the clock tower. This is a nice area to explore while you’re here.

🗝️ Note that it’s not possible to enter the Sir Cunningham Clock Tower unless you can find the man who has the key.

5. All Saints Church
Built by the British in 1883, the All Saints Church is an important place for Peshawar’s Christian minority, which makes up about 70,000 people.

This is a good place to take a break from the hustle and bustle of the city, and it’s possible to climb the church’s tower too. You will have a nice view of Peshawar from here.

Sadly, 127 people were killed at this church when two suicide bombers attacked it during the Sunday Service on 22 September 2012. You will find a monument that commemorates the victims on the church’s grounds.

6. Chowk Yadgar
This square is one of the most famous places in Peshawar. It was originally built at the beginning of the 20th century to commemorate the visit of King George V and Queen Mary to Peshawar in 1905.

Originally, a large archway that marked the entrance to the city could be found here, but it was destroyed in a flood in 1929. The structure that you can see today was built in 1968. It’s decorated with floral designs and Urdu and Persian calligraphy.
Chowk Yadgar is a popular gathering place for locals, and it’s surrounded by street food stalls and traditional shops. This is a great place to soak up the city’s atmosphere.

7. Peshawar’s Qahwah houses
This might not be a specific place, as there are plenty of Qahwah houses in Peshawar, but it is worth mentioning on this list as a visit to this city wouldn’t be complete without drinking some delicious chai here.

A Qahwah house is a traditional tea place that’s popular among locals. They have been around for centuries, and here, locals exchange thoughts about politics, culture, sports and other topics.

8. Peshawar Museum
At the Peshawar Museum, you will find a collection of ancient artefacts including Buddhist art, pottery, coins, manuscripts, textiles, jewellery, Mughal paintings, Kalash effigies and more.

This museum is most famous for its Gandharan section (Gandhara was an ancient Buddhist civilisation that could be found in present-day north-west Pakistan and north-east Afghanistan), but it also boasts an Islamic section.

This is a place you cannot miss if you’re a history buff. It’s set in a British colonial building, and it’s full of interesting artefacts.

9. Gor Khatri
Gor Khatri is a historical complex located in the middle of Peshawar’s old city. This place has a long history, but it’s most famous for being used as a caravanserai (a traveller’s inn) after Jehan Ara Begum, the daughter of Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan, opened it for this purpose in 1641. Here, traders on the historic Silk Road between India and Central Asia would stay in comfortable sleeping quarters.

This being said, archaeologists have been carrying out excavations and have found antiquities of over 2,300 years old at this complex. It’s believed that Gor Khatri once housed the consecrated begging bowl of Lord Buddha, and later, the area was taken over by Hindus who used the site for religious rituals.

Make sure to check out Prince Mahir Ullah’s shop while you’re here. He sells jewellery, traditional clothes and antiquities. You might find some unique souvenirs from Pakistan here.

10. Truck workshop
When you’re in Pakistan, you will notice that this country has AMAZING truck art. Pakistani trucks are seriously the coolest and most colourful ones I’ve ever seen, and I couldn’t stop gazing at them.

If you want to see how these trucks are repaired and decorated, you can visit Peshawar’s truck workshop. The people here are very welcoming and they even invited me to have a look inside the trucks or sit at the steering wheel!

11. Qila Bala Hisar Fort
While it’s not possible to visit the Qila Bala Hisar Fort on the inside, it’s still worth mentioning on this list as it’s one of Peshawar’s most notable landmarks.

This fort has a rich history. It was first built when Mughal Emperor Babur captured Peshawar in the 16th century and was later used as a royal residence for the Afghan Durrani dynasty. The fort was then destroyed, and the one that can be seen today was built by the Sikhs in 1834. It serves as the headquarters of the Frontier Corps.
While it’s not possible to visit the Qila Bala Hisar Fort on the inside, it’s still worth mentioning on this list as it’s one of Peshawar’s most notable landmarks.

This fort has a rich history. It was first built when Mughal Emperor Babur captured Peshawar in the 16th century and was later used as a royal residence for the Afghan Durrani dynasty. The fort was then destroyed, and the one that can be seen today was built by the Sikhs in 1834. It serves as the headquarters of the Frontier Corps.

There’s a small military museum inside the Qila Bala Hisar Fort, but you need a special permit to visit it. It showcases a collection of weapons, photographs, uniforms and other artefacts.

12. Khyber Pass Gate
The Khyber Pass Gate (Bab-e-Khyber) is a 25 km (15 mi) drive from the old city of Peshawar, which is why I decided to skip it during my visit here. It is an interesting place, though!

This gate is located at the entrance of the Khyber Pass between Pakistan and Afghanistan. It was built in 1964 and is often dubbed the “National Passageway of Pakistan”. Back in the day, the Khyber Pass was used by traders, invaders and warriors as a passage to South Asia.

Best Time to Visit Peshawar
The best time to visit Peshawar is from February to April or October to December. This is when the weather will be at its best. You can find an overview of the seasons in Peshawar below.

Winter (mid-November to March): If you don’t mind the cold, winter is a nice time to visit Peshawar, but there will be more rainfall during this season. You can expect temperatures between 10°C and 15°C (50°F and 59°F) during the day, but it can get pretty cold (and maybe even freeze) at night.
Spring (March to April): This is a great time to visit Peshawar. You can expect clear skies and mild weather with an average temperature of 26°C (79°F) during the day.
Summer (May to September): Summers are hot in Peshawar! It can get over 40°C (104°F) during this season, so this is not a good time to visit this city.
Autumn (October to mid-November): With temperatures of around 27°C (81°F) during daytime, autumn is a good time to visit Peshawar.

How to Get Around Peshawar
The best way to get around the old city of Peshawar is by walking. Most of the tourist sights here are within walking distance of each other, and this is a nice way to get to know the city better.

If you don’t feel like walking or for longer distances, you can opt for the following options:

Rickshaw: This is my favourite way to get around cities in South Asia. Rickshaws are cheap, and they will bring you exactly where you need to be. Make sure to negotiate the price in advance, though.
Metrobus: The metrobus is the cheapest way to get around Peshawar, but it’s a little more time-consuming as it doesn’t go everywhere.
Taxi: While taking a private car will be more expensive than the other options, it will also be more comfortable. Pakistan is one of the cheapest countries in Asia, though, so rest assured you won’t break the bank if you decide to take a taxi.

Where to Stay in Peshawar
This is a tricky one, as the rules are pretty strict here, and most hotels in Peshawar don’t host foreigners. You will find some hotels that do below:

Peshawar Barracks Estb 1867 (⭐ 8.8/10, $$$): Peshawar Barracks features spacious rooms, an onsite restaurant, a fitness and a big garden. It used to be a military base, and it’s now one of the top hotels in Peshawar.
Shelton’s Rezidor (⭐ 8.1/10, $$): This is a great place to stay for those on a mid-range budget. Shelton’s Rezidor is a beautiful hotel with a garden and bar. The rooms are elegant, and the staff is helpful.
Empire Hotel (⭐ $): The Empire Hotel is the best hotel that hosts foreigners I could find at a reasonable price. It was closed due to renovations during my second visit to Peshawar, though, and I’m not entirely sure if it still hosts foreigners (let me know in the comments of this post if you know).